Add things to know for concurrent segment search (#6362)
opensearch-project/documentation-website: _search-plugins/concurrent-segment-search.md

## Limitations

The following aggregations do not support the concurrent search model. If a search request contains one of these aggregations, the request will be executed using the non-concurrent path even if concurrent segment search is enabled at the cluster level or index level.
- Parent aggregations on [join]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/field-types/supported-field-types/join/) fields

> - Sampler and Diversified Sampler aggregations.

Reviewer: Lets also add reference to tracking Github Issue which has some info on why we have it disabled for these cases.

Typically, queries are used with smaller `terminate_after` values and thus complete quickly because the search is performed on a reduced dataset. Therefore, concurrent search may not further improve performance in this case. Moreover, when `terminate_after` is used with other search request parameters, such as `track_total_hits` or `size`, it adds complexity and changes the expected query behavior. Falling back to a non-concurrent path for search requests that include `terminate_after` ensures consistent results between concurrent and non-concurrent requests.

### Sorting

When performing sort operations, optimizations from Lucene that allow for pruning entire segments can greatly speed up the request. Whether these optimizations are able to kick in depends on both the segment layout and the query construction. For concurrent segment search, segments are grouped into segment slices, so in certain cases these sort optimizations may not be applicable to the segment slices. In these cases, you may see an increase in query latency when performing sort operations.

> 

Reviewer: Sort optimization will kick in at slice level in concurrent segment search case as well. We should say below instead:

Depending on the data layout in the segments, the sort optimization can prune the entire segments based on its min/max values and collected values so far. For cases, when the top values are present in the first few segments and all other segments are pruned, you may see an increase in query latency when performing sort with concurrent segment search. Whereas for cases when the last few segments contains top values then you may see improvement in latency with concurrent segment search.

> ### Terms Aggregations

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Terms aggregations
```

> When performing concurrent segment search, the `shard_size` parameter will be applied at the segment slice level. This may introduce additional document count error, which is correctly calculated by the `doc_count_error_upper_bound` response parameter for such cases.

Reviewer: Do we need to add the note about cases where result may vary w.r.t concurrent search disabled depending on how shard_size value is selected and applied at slice levels? Or is that captured in generic doc section? Basically same issue w.r.t coordinator to shards will be now seen w.r.t shards to slices.

Will be good to add reference to issue or PR where you have details about these cases.

Author: I think the concept of document count error generically is covered by https://github.com/opensearch-project/documentation-website/pull/6355 but I think we can link to https://github.com/opensearch-project/OpenSearch/issues/11680#issuecomment-1885882985 as well to cover how the specifically affects concurrent search.

> When performing concurrent segment search the `shard_size` parameter will be applied at the segment slice level. This may introduce additional document count error, which is correctly calculated by the `doc_count_error_upper_bound` response parameter for such cases.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When performing concurrent segment search, the `shard_size` parameter will be applied at the segment slice level. This may introduce additional document count error, which is correctly calculated by the `doc_count_error_upper_bound` response parameter for such cases.
```

## Limitations

The following aggregations do not support the concurrent search model. If a search request contains one of these aggregations, the request will be executed using the non-concurrent path even if concurrent segment search is enabled at the cluster level or index level.
- Parent aggregations on [join]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/field-types/supported-field-types/join/) fields. See [GitHub issue](https://github.com/opensearch-project/OpenSearch/issues/9316).
- Sampler and Diversified Sampler aggregations. See [GitHub issue](https://github.com/opensearch-project/OpenSearch/issues/110750).

> ## Things to know

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Other considerations

Review the following additional considerations for concurrent segment search.

```

## Limitations

The following aggregations do not support the concurrent search model. If a search request contains one of these aggregations, the request will be executed using the non-concurrent path even if concurrent segment search is enabled at the cluster level or index level.
- Parent aggregations on [join]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/field-types/supported-field-types/join/) fields. See [GitHub issue](https://github.com/opensearch-project/OpenSearch/issues/9316).

> - Sampler and Diversified Sampler aggregations. See [GitHub issue](https://github.com/opensearch-project/OpenSearch/issues/110750).

Reviewer 3: Confirm that "Diversified Sampler" is meant to be capitalized and should not be formatted differently.

Reviewer 3: Or is it a common noun and should just be "diversified sampler"?

Author: The name of the aggregation type is "Diversified sampler". Similar to "Significant terms" vs. "Terms" aggregations.

See: https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/aggregations/bucket/diversified-sampler/

Reviewer 3: Got it, it should be in code font, then.

> - Sampler and Diversified Sampler aggregations. See [GitHub issue](https://github.com/opensearch-project/OpenSearch/issues/110750).

Author: ```suggestion
- `Sampler` and `Diversified sampler` aggregations. See [GitHub issue](https://github.com/opensearch-project/OpenSearch/issues/110750).
```

> - `Sampler` and `Diversified sampler` aggregations. See [this GitHub issue](https://github.com/opensearch-project/OpenSearch/issues/110750) for more information.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `sampler` and `diversified_sampler` aggregations. See [this GitHub issue](https://github.com/opensearch-project/OpenSearch/issues/110750) for more information.
```

## Other considerations

> Review the following additional considerations for concurrent segment search.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The following sections provide additional considerations for concurrent segment search.
```

### The `terminate_after` search parameter

The [`terminate_after` search parameter]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/api-reference/search/#url-parameters) is used to terminate a search request once a specified number of documents has been collected. If you include the `terminate_after` parameter in a request, concurrent segment search is disabled and the request is run in a non-concurrent manner.

Typically, queries are used with smaller `terminate_after` values and thus complete quickly because the search is performed on a reduced dataset. Therefore, concurrent search may not further improve performance in this case. Moreover, when `terminate_after` is used with other search request parameters, such as `track_total_hits` or `size`, it adds complexity and changes the expected query behavior. Falling back to a non-concurrent path for search requests that include `terminate_after` ensures consistent results between concurrent and non-concurrent requests.

### Sorting

> Depending on the data layout in the segments, the sort optimization can prune entire segments based on the min and max values as well as values collected so far. For cases when the top values are present in the first few segments and all other segments are pruned, you may see an increase in query latency when performing sort with concurrent segment search. Whereas for cases when the last few segments contains top values then you may see improvement in latency with concurrent segment search.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Depending on the data layout of the segments, the sort optimization feature can prune entire segments based on the min and max values as well as previously collected values. If the top values are present in the first few segments and all other segments are pruned, query latency may increase when sorting with concurrent segment search. Conversely, if the last few segments contain the top values, then latency may improve with concurrent segment search.
```

### Terms aggregations

> When performing concurrent segment search, the `shard_size` parameter will be applied at the segment slice level. This may introduce additional document count error, which is correctly calculated by the `doc_count_error_upper_bound` response parameter for such cases.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
When performing concurrent segment search, the `shard_size` parameter will be applied at the segment slice level. This may introduce an additional document count error, which is correctly calculated by the `doc_count_error_upper_bound` response parameter in such cases.
```

> When performing concurrent segment search, the `shard_size` parameter will be applied at the segment slice level. This may introduce additional document count error, which is correctly calculated by the `doc_count_error_upper_bound` response parameter for such cases.

Reviewer 3: Is "additional" necessary here, or should it just be "a document count error"? I don't believe we've referenced an initial error.

Reviewer 2: @jed326 Could you address this question?

Author: For non-concurrent search doc count error is introduced when the shards eliminate candidate buckets and we just added some more detailed documentation for this in #6355.
The "additional" here refers to how in additional to the doc count error introduced by the shards, there is (potentially) additional document count error introduced by the slices for concurrent segment search.

Reviewer 3: Ok, then if we want to keep the word "additional," we need to explain that, or the reader may ask "Where was the first error?"

> When performing concurrent segment search, the `shard_size` parameter will be applied at the segment slice level. This may introduce an additional document count error compared to non-concurrent search, which is correctly calculated by the `doc_count_error_upper_bound` response parameter in such cases.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Non-concurrent search calculates document count error and returns it in the `doc_count_error_upper_bound` response parameter. During concurrent segment search, the `shard_size` parameter is applied at the segment slice level. Because of this, concurrent search may introduce an additional document count error.
```

> For more details on how `shard_size` can affect both `doc_count_error_upper_bound` and collect buckets, see [GitHub issue](https://github.com/opensearch-project/OpenSearch/issues/11680#issuecomment-1885882985).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For more information about how `shard_size` can affect both `doc_count_error_upper_bound` and collect buckets, see [this GitHub issue](https://github.com/opensearch-project/OpenSearch/issues/11680#issuecomment-1885882985).
```

> For more details on how `shard_size` can affect both `doc_count_error_upper_bound` and collect buckets, see [GitHub issue](https://github.com/opensearch-project/OpenSearch/issues/11680#issuecomment-1885882985).

Reviewer 3: Please replace "collect" with the appropriate word. Collector? Collection?

Reviewer 2: @jed326 Could you address this question?

Author: It should be "collected"

> For more details on how `shard_size` can affect both `doc_count_error_upper_bound` and collect buckets, see [GitHub issue](https://github.com/opensearch-project/OpenSearch/issues/11680#issuecomment-1885882985).

Author: ```suggestion
For more details on how `shard_size` can affect both `doc_count_error_upper_bound` and collected buckets, see [GitHub issue](https://github.com/opensearch-project/OpenSearch/issues/11680#issuecomment-1885882985).
```
